

 
    
  
>> Joyce Farrell: Hi. 

    This is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's modularize a program. 

    Suppose you've created a simple program 

    that produces a customer bill. 

    The program starts, and you make declarations 

    to hold a customer name and a customer balance due. 

    You then input data for the customer, the name, 

    and the balance due, then you output some company information. 

    You output your company's name, its street address, 

    and its city, state, and zip code. 

    Then you output the customer information, the customer name, 

    and the customer balance, and you stop the program. 

    Suppose you want to create a module 

    that contains the three company-related items printing 

    the name, the street address, 

    and the city, state, and zip code. 

    You could remove those three statements from the main program 

    and place them into their own module. 

    To place the steps in their own module, you'd add a header. 

    In this case, we're going to call it displayAddressInfo. 

    By convention, a module header ends with a set of parentheses. 

    At the end of the module, you add a return statement. 

    That's the point at which the logic is going to return 

    from the module and go back to the main program. 

    In the main program, you add a call to the module. 

    You call the module by using its name, 

    in this case, displayAddressInfo, and by convention, 

    a call to a module appears in a rectangle 

    with a stripe across the top. 

    After the call to the module, you continue with the rest 

    of the program that outputs the customer data. 

    When you run this new modularized program, 

    the program starts, you declare the variables, 

    you get the customer information, 

    and then you call the displayAddressInfo module. 

    At that point, the logic transfers to the module, 

    and the module executes. 

    You output your company name, output its street address, 

    and output the city, state, and zip code. 

    When the module reaches its return statement, 

    logic goes back to the main program right 

    after where the method call occurred. 

    Then you output the customer information, the name, 

    customer's balance, and stop the program, 

    and you've successfully modularized the program. 

    Thanks for watching. 

    [ Silence ] 

   
