

 
    
  
>> Joyce: Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's talk about arithmetic operator precedence. 

    When you have arithmetic statements 

    in a computer program, there are rules of precedence. 

    These are the rules that dictate the order 

    in which arithmetic operations are carried out. 

    When you have more than one operation 

    in a statement, anything within parentheses is evaluated first. 

    After expressions 

    within parentheses are evaluated, multiplication 

    and division are evaluated moving from left to right. 

    After all multiplication 

    and division have been evaluated, addition 

    and subtraction are evaluated moving from left to right. 

    Finally, if there is an assignment operation 

    in the statement, assignment executes last. 

    Let's look at an example. 

    Suppose you have a programming statement answer equals 2 plus 3 

    times parentheses 5 minus 1. 

    Looking at the rules 

    of precedence, the first one is do anything within parentheses. 

    In this case, 5 minus 1 is within parentheses, so that evaluates 

    to 4, so the expression becomes answer equals 2 plus 3 times 4. 

    When the expression inside parentheses has been reduced 

    to a single value, you can eliminate the parentheses, 

    so the expression becomes answer equals 2 plus 3 times 4. 

    The next rule of precedence is to do multiplication 

    and division moving from left to right. 

    There's no division in this statement, 

    so the first multiplication statement multiplies 3 times 4, 

    so the expression becomes answer equals 2 plus 12. 

    There's no more multiplication or division, so you can look 

    at the third rule of precedence, 

    which says do any addition or subtraction. 

    In this case, there's some addition, 

    so 2 plus 12 is 14, answer equals 14. 

    The last rule of precedence says 

    use the assignment operator to assign the value to 14, 

    and at this point, in memory, the spot called answer gets a 14 

    stored in it. 

    Let's look at another example: 

    result equals 24 divided by 2 divided 

    by parentheses 2 times parentheses 1 plus 2. 

    Notice that for every opening parentheses there's always a 

    closing parentheses. 

    Looking at the rules of precedence, number 1 says 

    do the operations inside parentheses. 

    When there are multiple sets 

    of parentheses, you take the inside parentheses first. 

    The inside parentheses, in this case, contain 1 plus 2, 

    so the expression changes to result is 24 divided 

    by 2 divided by 2 times 3, because of 1 plus 2 is 3. 

    The rules of precedence still say parentheses are operated 

    on next. So 2 times 3 is 6, 

    so result becomes 24 divided by 2 divided by 6. 

    Since there are no more parentheses, you can look 

    at the next rule of precedence that says do multiplication 

    or division from left to right. 

    So moving from left to right, 24 divided by 2 is 12, 

    so the expression becomes 12 divided by 6. 

    Then still doing multiplication or division from left 

    to right, 12 divided by 6 is 2. 

    Looking at the next rule 

    of precedence we do any addition or subtraction. 

    In this case, there is no addition or subtraction. 

    That's okay, we just move to the next rule of precedence. 

    The last one says make the assignment, 

    so in memory, a spot called result finally has the value 2 

    assigned to it. 

    Those are the rules of precedence 

    in arithmetic expressions. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
