

 
    
  
>> Hi. This is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's look at gui components. 

    Gui components are all the little icons 

    and pictorial devices you're used 

    to using with many programs. 

    They're graphical user interfaces. 

    That is, they're pictures that the user can use 

    to interact with a program. 

    They include things like buttons, labels, and text boxes. 

    When you program a gui program, 

    you frequently use an integrated development environment, 

    which is an environment that makes it easy for you 

    to manipulate items like buttons and labels. 

    Here's a demonstration program that allows you to enter a name. 

    Let's say I type in a name 

    and when I click the button, there's a greeting. 

    It has a label, a text box, a button and another label. 

    This is the Microsoft Visual C Sharp integrated 

    development environment. 

    There are different integrated development environments 

    for other programming languages, but this one is quite typical. 

    There's a form here in the middle that I can use 

    to start my application. 

    And over here, there are some gui components like a button 

    and a check box that I can drag onto the form 

    to create my application. 

    Right now, the name of this form is Form 1. 

    And if you look over here, the properties 

    of Form 1 include the fact that its text is Form 1. 

    Well, I don't want its text to be Form 1, so I'm going 

    to delete that and I'm going to type demonstration. 

    When I press Enter, or click back on Form, 

    it's going to say demonstration. 

    Let me take a gui component like a label and drag it here. 

    And right now, the label's name is Label 1 

    and its text is Label 1, 

    but I want to change its text to be: enter a name. 

    And there it is. 

    Enter a name. 

    Let me get a text box and put it next to that and that's 

    where the user will be entering the name. 

    I'm not going to change the text in the text box 

    because I want the user to do that. 

    I'm going to get button and drag it here. 

    And I don't want the button to say Button 1, so I'm going 

    to change its text to say: click here. 

    And then finally, I want a label here that's going 

    to greet the user, so I'm going to put another label there. 

    It's called Label 2. 

    I don't want its text to say label 2, 

    I actually want its text to start out saying nothing. 

    So I'm just going to delete its text. 

    Also, that label is kind of small, so under the properties 

    of Label 2, I'm going to scroll up -- and let's find its font 

    and instead of 8, let's make it something a little bit more 

    noticeable like 24. 

    OK. So now I have a label, a text box, 

    a button and another label. 

    In order to get some actions, I need to write code 

    for what happens when the user clicks the button. 

    If I double click the button, I can get to some C Sharp code. 

    Now you'd have to learn a lot of C Sharp 

    to understand what everything here means. 

    But right now, I just need to add a single statement 

    to the Button 1 click method. 

    This is the method that will execute 

    when Button 1 is clicked. 

    What I want to do is change the text in that Label 2. 

    So I start typing Label 2, and when I do, 

    the automatic statement completion feature 

    of C Sharp helps me out by giving me some choices 

    and I can just double click on Label 2 

    and then I can set its text to Hello, with a comma and a space, 

    plus whatever the user has typed in text Box 1. 

    That will be Text Box 1's text. 

    In C Sharp, every statement ends with a semicolon, 

    so I'll type a semicolon. 

    Looking back at the form, there's still nothing there 

    in Label 2 because the user hasn't clicked a button yet. 

    We haven't run the program yet. 

    To run the program, one way is to go to debug and pick Start. 

    The form shows up. 

    It's ready for me to enter a name. 

    I'm going to type a name and click the button. 

    And there's the greeting. 

    If I type a different name, 

    click the button, there's the greeting. 

    That's a quick look at how you might start 

    to create an application using gui components. 

   
