

 
    
  
>> Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's take a quick look 

    at the logic behind merging files. 

    You can merge files when you have two or more files 

    that are in the same format. 

    That means that the records 

    in both files contain the same fields, in the same order. 

    You also can merge files 

    when the two files are sorted using the same field. 

    In other words, if the two files hold customer records, 

    both have to be sorted in ID number order, or both have 

    to be sorted by last name of the customer, or maybe both have 

    to be sorted by zip code. 

    It doesn't matter which field they're sorted by, but they have 

    to be sorted using the same field. 

    For example, let's take a simple file 

    that just stores the first name of your friends. 

    You have 5 friends and they're in alphabetical order. 

    Suppose I also have a file of friends, and my friends are 

    in alphabetical order. 

    What you might want to do is create a merged listed 

    in which all the names are in alphabetical order 

    and the merged file contains each record 

    from the first two files. 

    Here's how the logic would work. 

    You read in one record from each of the files. 

    So, in this case, your first friend is Beth, 

    and my first friend is Ann. 

    You compare the two and see which one is less. 

    The one that's less alphabetically is the one 

    that comes first alphabetically. 

    In other words, in this case it's Ann. 

    So, you would write Ann to the output file 

    and read the next record in the My friends file. 

    Then you compare Beth and Don. 

    Beth is less alphabetically, so you write Beth 

    to the output file, and read another record 

    from the Your friends file, which is Carl. 

    You compare Carl and Don. 

    Carl is less, so you write Carl to output and read George. 

    You compare Don and George, Don is less, so you write Don 

    to output file, and read Emily from My friends file. 

    When you compare George and Emily, Emily is less, 

    so it gets sent to output and you read Fred. 

    George and Fred, Fred is less, so you send Fred to output 

    and you read past the end of the file. 

    You can't quit the program yet because there are still more 

    of Your friends to be sent to output. 

    So, a trick the programmers use is to put a very high value 

    in memory in the spot where the My friends name would be. 

    By a high value, we mean something 

    that alphabetically will always fall 

    after every name in the list. 

    In this case, ZZZZZ will work. 

    If we were sorting on a numeric field, we might use a value 

    like 99999. 

    Anyhow, we now compare George and ZZZ, and George is less, 

    so George is written to output and we read Hannah into memory. 

    Hannah is less than ZZZ, so Hannah is sent 

    to output and we read Iris. 

    Iris is less than ZZZ, so we send Iris to output 

    and set Your friends name to ZZZ. 

    When both names are the Zs, that's the end of the program, 

    and you've produced a final merged friends list. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
