

 
    
  
>> Joyce: Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's take a first look at a simple computer program. 

    Some basic programming operations occur 

    in almost every computer program. 

    First there's input, a user puts some data into a program, 

    some facts and figures. 

    Input devices that are used include keyboards and mice. 

    Sometimes input data comes on a disk. 

    Audio data might come through a microphone. 

    After the data is input, it's processed. 

    The piece of hardware 

    that performs processing is the Central Processing Unit 

    or the CPU. 

    Processing might include doing some arithmetic 

    or sorting the data or organizing it in some way. 

    After data is input 

    and processed, you can output the information that you've created. 

    Output is available for a user to see, 

    to see the results of the program. 

    Output devices include monitors and printers. 

    Audio output might come through speakers 

    or sometimes output is sent to a disk and then 

    that disk might be used as input into a new program. 

    When programmers plan the logic 

    for their programs they tend to use 1 of 2 tools. 

    Flowcharts are pictorial representations 

    of the logical steps in a program 

    and pseudocode is the logical steps 

    of a program written out in English form. 

    Here's the logic for a program that adds 1 

    to a user's input number. 

    On the left is the flowchart of the program, 

    on the top right is the pseudocode 

    and on the bottom right is what the program might look 

    like after it's been written and it's running 

    in a Command Prompt window. 

    In both the flowchart and pseudocode,  the first step is to start. 

    In the Command Prompt window, you might type a command 

    to run the program. 

    The command will differ in every programming language 

    that you use. 

    This program happens to have been written in Java, 

    so the command is Java and then OneMore, 

    which is the name of the program. 

    In both the flowchart and the pseudocode the next step is 

    to input the user's entry. 

    In a real program, you might add an output statement before input 

    usersEntry to explain to the user what to do. 

    In this very simple example, 

    on the output screen, we'll just have a question mark asking the 

    user for an entry, and then the user types 

    in some data, let's say 16. 

    The next step in both the flowchart 

    and the pseudocode sets a spot in memory, called Result, 

    to usersEntry + 1. 

    Nothing happens on the screen during this step. 

    This processing happens in the central processing unit 

    and in memory, so result becomes one more than the user's entry. 

    The next step in both the flowchart and the pseudocode is 

    to output the words &quot;One more than&quot;, followed 

    by the usersEntry, followed 

    by the word &quot;is&quot;, and ending in result. 

    On the screen it says, &quot;One more than 16 is 17&quot; 

    because 17 is the value of result, 

    and then the program ends. 

    You can run the program again, start it, give the command 

    to start it, ask for input, perhaps the user types 345. 

    In memory, result is set to 346, 

    but you don't see anything happen on the screen yet. 

    When both the flowchart and the pseudocode get 

    to the output statement, then on the screen you see, 

    &quot;One more than 345 is 346,&quot; 

    and both the flowchart and pseudocode stop. 

    You don't have to run programs in a command line environment. 

    Some programs are created to run 

    in a GUI  environment. 

    GUI means Graphical User Interface. 

    For example, suppose you have the GUI screen that you see 

    in the lower-right part of the screen. 

    In the flowchart and the pseudocode, you still start 

    the program. 

    You still input the user's entry. 

    Let's say the user types 67 into a textbox. 

    In memory, the result becomes usersEntry + 1. 

    You don't see anything happen on the screen. 

    In both the flowchart and the pseudocode, the next step is 

    to output one more than user's entry is result. 

    And on the GUI screen you can see One more than 67 is 68. 

    The flowchart and pseudocode 

    for the GUI program are identical to what they were 

    for the command line program. 

    The logic is the same no matter what the environment is. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
