

 
    
  
>> Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    This is an introduction to object-oriented programming. 

    The features of object-oriented programming languages include 

    several that are not included 

    in procedural programming languages. 

    For example, object-oriented programs have classes. 

    Classes are categories of objects. 

    They also have objects. 

    Objects are instances of classes. 

    Classes are similar to a blueprint or a recipe. 

    It describes what an object will be 

    like when one is actually created. 

    An object is more like an actual house or an actual cookie, 

    something that is already created 

    from the blueprint or the recipe. 

    Object-oriented programming languages also 

    support encapsulation. 

    That means that the data and methods that pertain 

    to an object are stored as a single entity. 

    Inheritance is another feature 

    of object-oriented programming languages. 

    Inheritance gives you the ability 

    to extend existing classes and make new ones 

    that are based on the originals. 

    Object-oriented programming languages also 

    support polymorphism. 

    This is the ability of a method 

    to act correctly even though it uses different object types. 

    Let's take a look at a class. 

    Suppose you decide to start a business that produces videos 

    and you decide that the attributes 

    of a video will include a title and a running time. 

    You also decide methods you'll need include methods to create, 

    distribute and play the videos. 

    This is a class description. 

    When you actually create an object, it will have a title 

    and a running time and it will have access to all 

    of the methods in its class. 

    You then can create a different object 

    that perhaps has a different title 

    or a different running time and so on. 

    You can create any number of objects 

    from the original blueprint. 

    Encapsulation is the feature of combining all of the attributes 

    and methods into a single package. 

    When you create an object from a class, it contains everything 

    that belongs to the class. 

    Therefore, when you write a method, such as one like this 

    that accepts a video as a parameter, 

    you can pass the object in as a group. 

    You don't have to send the title, running time 

    or other attributes separately and the method has access 

    to everything that the class has. 

    Inheritance is the ability 

    to create a class from an existing one. 

    Suppose you decide you're going to produce educational videos 

    and you decide that their attributes should be a title, 

    a running time and a grade level 

    and that their methods should include create, 

    distribute and play. 

    Well you've already created most of this with a video. 

    The only new thing here is the grade level. 

    Everything else already exists in another class. 

    So instead of creating the educational video 

    from the start, you can inherit from video. 

    When you create the educational video class, all you have 

    to do is add one new attribute, grade level, 

    and take everything else from the existing class. 

    When you create an object that is an educational video, 

    it not only has a grade level, it also has a title 

    and a running time and access to all the video methods. 

    If you create another educational video object, 

    same thing, it could have the same or different title, 

    same or different running time and same 

    or different grade level. 

    Polymorphism gives you the ability to write a single method 

    that works appropriately with different kinds of objects. 

    For example, suppose you create a video object. 

    Then suppose you also create an educational video object. 

    A method that accepts a video object knows how 

    to work appropriately if you send it a video. 

    It knows how to distribute a video, for example. 

    And it also knows how to work appropriately 

    if you send it an educational video. 

    It knows how to distribute that. 

    Polymorphism allows you to write one method that can work 

    with multiple types of objects. 

    Again, the features of object- oriented programs include 

    classes and objects, encapsulation, 

    inheritance and polymorphism. 

    That's a brief introduction to object-oriented programming. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
