

 
    
  
>> Joyce: Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's finish talking about the program development cycle. 

    In the last two videos, you learned 

    that when a programmer develops a program the first step is 

    to understand the problem and we talked 

    about a number doubling program that lets a user type in a value 

    and find out what 2 times the value is. 

    We then looked at planning the logic, 

    and when we planned the logic, we looked at 2 tools: a flowchart 

    and pseudocode, both of which express the logic 

    of the program. 

    In both of these, the user is allowed to input a number, 

    the answer is computed as the number times 2, 

    and then the answer is output. 

    After the logic is planned, you can write the code 

    in a computer programming language, and we looked 

    at an example written in Java. 

    After the code is written, you use a compiler or an interpreter 

    to translate that code into 1s and 0s, 

    it becomes machine language 

    or the internal circuitry language of the computer. 

    When the program is successfully translated, you can test 

    the program. 

    Testing the program involves executing it several times 

    to make sure that the output is correct. 

    For example, with the Java program, one way to run it is 

    to go to the Command Prompt and type java 

    and the name of the program. 

    When you hit Enter, you see the prompt that was part 

    of the program, Enter a number 

    and 2 little right-facing arrows. 

    You might type a 7 and when you hit Enter, the output is the 

    Answer is 14. That's correct 

    and you have one successful test of the program. 

    An experienced programmer knows 

    that you had better test the program many more times 

    to make sure it's correct with other values as well, 

    so you might run the program again and type in 124. 

    If the answer comes up 248, you become increasingly confident 

    that this program does, indeed, 

    double numbers that the user inputs. 

    You would then run the program many more times and, finally, 

    you would be satisfied that it is correct. 

    After the program has been tested, you can put it 

    into production. 

    Putting it into production means turning it 

    over to the clients who will use it. 

    It might also involve training the clients. 

    You might hold a class for them in how to use the program. 

    You might publish a booklet for them on how to use the program. 

    It might involve all sorts of tasks to turn it over 

    and make it a viable program. 

    After a program is in production, over time you may need 

    to maintain the program. 

    For example, suppose your user comes to you and says, 

    &quot;You know the number doubling program has been working great, 

    but the other day something terrible happened. 

    We were running the program and it said enter a number 

    and a user typed in 7, s-e-v-e-n. 

    The user pressed the Enter key, 

    and, oh my goodness, all these error messages appeared 

    and we didn't know what to do.&quot; 

    Well, the problem, if you can read 

    that first error message line and kind of figure 

    out what it means it says, &quot;InputMismatchException.&quot; 

    The problem is the user typed a word 

    and the program was only expecting a digit. 

    You might handle this in any number of ways. 

    You might change the prompt to say something like, 

    &quot;Enter a number and make sure it's a digit and not a word.&quot; 

    You might instead allow the user to enter a word, 

    but change the word 

    into a number internally in the program. 

    You might handle the problem in any number of ways. 

    It's up to your client what they want you to do. 

    But making the changes that are necessary is maintaining 

    the program. 

    Over time your client may come to you and say, &quot;You know, 

    we'd like some more changes to this program.&quot; 

    For example, what if the client wants 

    to let the user multiply any 2 values, not just 2 

    but maybe triple or quadruple any value? 

    Or suppose the client says, &quot;You know, this program is 

    so successful let's start charging money, and I want you 

    to keep track of the money the user owes us 

    and let's let the user put the fee on a credit card, 

    so add that capability to the program.&quot; 

    And, of course, if the user's going to put the fee 

    on a credit card, let's have the program dial 

    into the credit card company 

    and make sure the user has money available on a credit card. 

    And, you know, our good users, 

    after they use the program 10 times, let's give them a discount 

    and not charge $.10 per use but only $.08, 

    and so on and so on and so on. 
&quot;
    And the user might have so many new requirements 

    that you might say, &quot;Wait a minute, 

    there's so many issues here, I better understand the problem 

    all over again and let's sit down and talk 

    about all the changes that need to be made.&quot; 

    And when you understand the new problem, you might then want 

    to plan the logic for the new program, write its code, 

    translate that code into machine language, then test the new 

    program and see if it works correctly, and put it 

    into production with all the new instructions for the clients. 

    And over time that new program may need to be maintained. 

    And the program development cycle may continue over 

    and over again many times over the life of the program. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
