

 
    
  
>> Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's take a look at the this reference. 

    Suppose you decided to create a class called Apartment 

    that holds data about apartments in an apartment building. 

    Suppose you decide that the data 

    that you need includes an apartment number 

    and a monthly rent for the apartment. 

    You might create a method, such as set apartment number, 

    that accepts a parameter that you can assign 

    to the apartment number. 

    And similarly, you might have a method named set rent 

    that accepts an amount for the monthly rent and assigns it 

    to the rent in the apartment. 

    You might also have a display method 

    that outputs the data in a nice format. 

    And that would be the apartment class. 

    Suppose you had a program that declares two apartment objects. 

    You might declare my apartment as an apartment. 

    That would set up my apartment in memory at a specific address. 

    Let's just say it's memory address 1000. 

    And enough space would be reserved 

    to eventually hold an apartment number and the rent. 

    If you declare another object, let's say your apartment, 

    that sets up another spot in memory. 

    Let's just say it's at memory address 1020. 

    And there would be enough room there 

    to store an apartment number and a rent for that apartment. 

    When you call an instance method, you use an object, 

    a dot and a method name. 

    So, for example, my apartment dot set apartment number can be 

    used to set the apartment number of my apartment. 

    When you call the set apartment number method, 

    a this reference is passed to the method. 

    The this reference is not something that you code 

    in the method, but it's sent implicitly, and it's going 

    to hold the address 

    of the object whose apartment number is going to be sent. 

    So when you call my apartment dot set apartment number, 

    the address of my apartment 1000 is sent to the method 

    so the method knows what object to work on. 

    The argument to the method 107 is sent in as a parameter 

    for the apartment number. 

    When you call the method, 

    the apartment number is actually this apartment number. 

    You don't have to write this in the method, but this refers 

    to this object at address 1000, its apartment number. 

    So the argument that comes 

    in as the parameter 107 can be assigned 

    to the apartment number at address 1000. 

    Similarly, you can call my apartment dot set rent 

    and send in an argument. 

    And a this reference is used in the method header. 

    And a this reference can be used within the method itself. 

    So when you call my apartment dot set rent, it gets the 1000, 

    which is the address of my apartment, 

    it sends it to the method, the rent is also sent to the method, 

    and the value is assigned at 1000's rent location. 

    So 600 goes into my apartment's rent. 

    When you call my apartment display, 

    a this reference is accepted by the method, and this can be used 

    with the apartment number and the rent to indicate 

    which object's data will be displayed. 

    When you call my apartment dot display, 1000 is sent 

    in as the reference, and the data that's accessed is this 

    apartment number and this rent. 

    So the output becomes apartment number 107 rents 

    for $600 per month. 

    You can write a statement in your program, 

    your apartment dot set apartment number. 

    And in this case, your apartment's address is sent 

    to the method, and 108 is sent to the apartment number, 

    and the appropriate assignments are made. 

    Set rent with your apartment uses the address 

    of your apartment and a different argument 

    and the appropriate assignment is made. 

    When you display this last piece of data from your apartment, 

    the display method gets the correct address 

    and knows whose data to display. 

    And the output would be apartment 108 rents 

    for $950 a month. 

    That's a quick look at how the this reference is automatically 

    used by instance methods in a class. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
