

 
    
  
>> Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's take a look at constructors. 

    In object-oriented programming languages, 

    classes contain constructors. 

    A constructor is very similar to a method, 

    but it's called automatically every time an object is created. 

    In many programming languages, 

    a constructor must have the same name as its class. 

    And although a constructor is similar to a method, 

    it never has a return type. 

    For example, assume you're going to create a class named Job 

    to hold data for jobs that you schedule for your workers. 

    You might decide to include data fields for an ID 

    for the job that's a string and a fee 

    for the job that's numeric. 

    If you start to write a program 

    and declare a job called Today's Job, 

    an automatically supplied constructor will execute 

    for you. 

    I mean a constructor that you didn't write. 

    Typically, the constructor will look like this. 

    It has the same name as the class, and the data fields 

    in the class are set to whatever the default values are 

    for strings and numeric variables 

    in the programming language that you're using. 

    So when you declare a job called Today's Job, 

    you get an object with default values. 

    You can write your own default constructor, 

    one that does not accept any parameters. 

    For example, you might decide every time a job is created, 

    you don't want the default values 

    in your programming language, but you want the ID 

    to be XXX and the fee to be 0. 

    Let's also look at a display method 

    that will output the data after it's set. 

    If you write a program 

    and declare a job called Today's Job, 

    the constructor is automatically called. 

    The ID is set to XXX, the fee is set to 0, 

    and the object is created. 

    If you add a statement to your program to display the job, 

    you'll see that the job ID is XXX, and the fee is 0. 

    Instead of a default constructor, 

    instead you might want to create a constructor 

    that uses parameters. 

    You might want to be able to send in an ID number and a price 

    and assign them to the appropriate fields. 

    If you write a constructor like this one, 

    you no longer get the default constructor. 

    This is the only constructor that there is. 

    So if you start to write a program and declare a job 

    as Today's Job, it won't work because you're trying 

    to declare an object without passing any values 

    for the constructor. 

    Instead, you have to declare Today's Job with two arguments. 

    The arguments then can be sent into the constructor 

    and the job can be created in memory with the assigned values. 

    If you display the values, you can see that they've been set 

    to what was assigned in the constructor. 

    You can overload constructors. 

    Overloading constructors, just like overloading methods, 

    means that you have multiple constructors with the same name, 

    but different parameter lists. 

    If you create two objects, job one, and the other one job two 

    with two arguments, both can work with this class. 

    Job one calls the parameter list default constructor 

    and creates an object in memory with the values assigned 

    in the default constructor. 

    Job two sends two arguments and creates an object 

    with the assigned arguments. 

    That's a quick look at constructors. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
