

 
    
  
>> Joyce Farrell: Hi. 

    This is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's talk about data types. 

    There are data types in every computer programming language 

    because a data type defines what values can be stored in an item, 

    how much memory is allocated for the item, and what kinds 

    of operations can be performed on the item. 

    In every programming language, 

    there are at least two broad data types. 

    Numeric data is numbers. 

    Numeric data can hold digits. 

    It optionally can hold a plus or minus sign in front 

    of the number to indicate positive or negative. 

    Perhaps there can be a decimal point and decimal places, 

    but there's no other punctuation allowed in numeric data. 

    No dollar signs, percent signs, or commas. 

    The other broad type of data is string data. 

    Just about anything can be contained in string data as long 

    as it's enclosed in quotation marks. 

    There can be letters, digits, punctuation, spaces, 

    anything as long as it's within quotation marks. 

    Let's look at the data down the left-hand column of this table, 

    and try to identify each piece of data as either numeric 

    or string or neither and illegal. 

    For example, 14? 

    That's numeric data. 

    That's a number. 

    Ninety-eight point six contains a decimal point. 

    That's numeric data. 

    Joe in quotes is valid string data. 

    String data is often something like a first name, 

    a last name, a city, or a state. 

    Negative 3, valid numeric data. 

    How about 2,000 with a comma in it? 

    At first, that looks like numeric data, 

    but numeric data cannot have punctuation such as a comma. 

    Therefore 2,000 with a comma in it is illegal. 

    How about 58 in quotes? 

    Fifty-eight might look like numeric data, 

    but if it's in quotes, it's a string. 

    A hundred dollars? 

    Seems to be numeric, but numeric data cannot have a dollar sign, 

    so a hundred dollars is illegal. 

    What do you think about a hundred dollars in quotes? 

    Anything in quotes is a valid string. 

    So, negative 25 in quotes? If you said string, 

    you're absolutely right. 

    And 44 Pine Lane in quotes? 

    It has digits, it has spaces, it has letters. 

    It is a valid string. 

    Numeric data. 

    Again, digits, 

    maybe plus or minus, maybe decimal point. 

    String in double quotes. 

    Any digits that are in combination 

    with other characters that are not inside quotes, 

    those pieces of data are illegal. 

    Why are there data types? 

    A data type defines what values can be stored in an item. 

    7, 70, minus 7, 7.77 are all numeric. 

    Book in quotes, 234 in quotes, Hello Sam in quotes, 

    those are all strings. 

    A data type tells you how much memory is allocated 

    for the item. 

    This differs between programming languages, but for example, 

    in some languages, a number like 7 might be stored in four bytes 

    of memory, but a string like book might be stored 

    in 16 bytes of memory. 

    A data type also tells you what kinds 

    of operations are allowed with the data. 

    If you put a plus sign between numeric items, 

    that always creates an arithmetic expression 

    that performs addition. 

    And the value of 7 plus 2 is 9. 

    If you place a plus between two strings, 

    in many programming languages, that concatenates the strings. 

    It means adds them end to end, and the result 

    of book plus keeper is bookkeeper. 

    How about the string 7 plus the string 2? 

    They're strings, so they're concatenated, 

    and the result is the string 72. 

    In every programming language, 

    two numeric values can be subtracted. 

    Seven minus 2, that expression has the value 5. 

    But in most programming languages, book minus keeper, 

    minus is not defined for string values, and that's illegal 

    and will cause an error in your program. 

    That's a summary of data types. 

    Thanks for watching. 

    [ Silence ] 

   
