

 
    
  
>> Joyce: Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's continue to talk about the program development cycle. 

    In the last video you learned the first step 

    to developing a computer program is to understand the problem. 

    And we talked about the problem of being able to write a program 

    where you have a user type in a value, 

    the program doubles the value for the user, 

    and outputs the answer. 

    We then talked about planning the logic to that problem, 

    and we used 2 tools: a flowchart 

    and a pseudocode to show the logic. 

    The flowchart and the pseudocode look very similar. Both 

    start. Both allow a user to input a value called myNumber. 

    In both cases you set myAnswer equal to myNumber times 2 

    and then you output  myAnswer and stop the program. 

    After you understand the problem 

    and plan its logic, you can write the code 

    to the computer program. 

    Writing the code means putting it 

    into a computer programming language such as Visual Basic 

    or C++ or Java. 

    For example, here's some Java code. 

    It looks confusing at first because there's dots 

    and parentheses and semicolons, 

    but basically what these 3 statements do is get a value 

    from the keyboard and store it in myNumber. 

    The middle statement computes the value of myAnswer 

    as myNumber times 2. This one looks the most 

    like the flowchart or the pseudocode statement. 

    And then the last statement has some new words and some dots, 

    but it outputs the words Answer is 

    and then the value of myAnswer. 

    Notice that each Java statement ends in a semicolon 

    because that's required in Java. 

    It's not required in pseudocode or in a flowchart, 

    but Java has particular syntax that you have 

    to learn before you can write this program in Java. 

    In most computer programs, you would add a prompt 

    for the user before the input statement. This one displays 

    on the screen Enter a number 

    and then shows 2 little right-facing arrows 

    to show the user where to type in an answer. 

    A complete Java program would have many more statements in it. 

    You can see some statements before the core part 

    of this program and some punctuation after, 

    but the highlighted part of the screen shows 

    that you prompt the user to enter a number, 

    you get the number, you compute myAnswer, 

    and you output the value of myAnswer. 

    Here's the Java  NumberDoubling program 

    with a mistake purposely entered into it. 

    Because you're not familiar 

    with Java, you might not notice the mistake right away, but it's 

    in the last line of code that displays myAnswer. 

    I've purposely left off the semicolon that Java requires 

    at the end of every statement. 

    I've purposely made this mistake 

    because when you type a program it is very easy 

    to make a typographical error, and I want 

    to show you what happens when you make one. 

    After you understand a problem, plan its logic, 

    and write the code you're ready to translate the code. 

    Translating the code means using a piece 

    of software, called a compiler or an interpreter, 

    and taking your code in the programming language 

    and turning it into machine language, which is the 1 

    and 0 circuitry language inside the computer. 

    For example, one way to compile a Java program is to go 

    to the Command Prompt and type javac, which stands 

    for Java Compile, and type the name of the program. 

    When you press the Enter key, in this case, you get a mistake. 

    It says NumberDoubling.java12 because the mistake happens 

    to be in line 12 of the program, 

    and then it says semicolon expected. 

    Well, that makes sense because I told you I purposely left off 

    the semicolon in order to generate this mistake. 

    The error message then continues with the line 

    where the mistake is, System.out.println Answer is myAnswer, 

    and way over on the right there's a little carrot pointing 

    to the spot where Java noticed the mistake. 

    If you understand this error message, you can go back 

    into your program and add the semicolon 

    and now the problem is fixed. 

    You might then return to the Command Prompt, 

    type the compiling statement again, press Enter, 

    and this time there are no error messages 

    and you have a successful compile of the program. 

    The program has successfully been translated 

    into machine language. 

    After you have translated the code, you can test the program, 

    then put the program into production, 

    and then maintain the program. 

    We'll talk about these next 3 steps in the next video. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
