

 
    
  
>> Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's examine looping. 

    Suppose you want to write a program that outputs 

    hello four times and then outputs goodbye. 

    This is the perfect place to use a loop. 

    You can start the program and declare a loop control variable. 

    We'll call this one &quot;count,&quot; and we'll initialize it to zero. 

    Then you compare the loop control variable to some value. 

    Count is less than four. 

    That's true, because count is zero, 

    so you enter the loop body, output hello, 

    and then add one to count. 

    Within a loop body, you always must alter the loop 

    control variable. 

    So here, count becomes one. 

    Is count still less than four? 

    Yes, it is, 

    so you output hello a second time, and then count becomes two. 

    You compare count to four again; it's still less, 

    so you output hello, and count becomes three. 

    You compare count to four; it's still less, 

    so you output hello, and count becomes four. 

    This time when you compare count to four, it's no longer less. 

    You don't enter the loop again. 

    You output goodbye, and you stop the program. 

    When you use a loop control variable in a program, 

    you must do three things with it. 

    You must initialize the loop control variable. 

    In this case, we're setting the loop control variable equal 

    to zero. 

    Initializing it doesn't have to happen when it's declared, 

    but it has to happen before the loop body starts. 

    And initializing doesn't mean it has to be set to zero. 

    The loop control variable just has to be set to some value. 

    In every loop, the loop control variable is tested. 

    In this case, we're testing, is count less than four. 

    And in the body of every loop, 

    the loop control variable must be altered. 

    In this case, we're altering count by adding one to it. 

    You don't have to add one. 

    In other loops, you might add two, or five, or ten. 

    Other loops, you might perform subtraction, 

    and still other loops, you might change the value of count 

    by getting user input. 

    But in some way, the variable must be altered somewhere 

    within the loop. 

    Let's look at a loop in which the loop control variable was 

    not initialized. 

    In this case, the program starts and count is declared, 

    but not given an initial value. 

    When you compare count to four, 

    one of several things might happen depending 

    on the programming language you're using. 

    Some languages won't compile the program, 

    and count will not be allowed to be compared to four 

    until it's given a value. 

    In other programming languages, count might just have garbage 

    in it, and it might be greater than four or less than four, 

    and you can't predict which way the logic will travel 

    after this question. 

    In any event, not initializing the count variable is a mistake. 

    It's also a mistake to not test the loop control 

    variable correctly. 

    In this program, we wanted to make sure that count was less 

    than four, but what if ,by mistake, we said 

    is count equal to four. 

    In that case, when the count was zero, it would not be equal 

    to four right away, and the program would output goodbye 

    and never output hello. 

    Or by mistake, you might have typed, count less than 44, 

    instead of just four, and you'd get 44 hellos instead 

    of only the four that you wanted. 

    In any event, if you don't compare the loop control 

    variable correctly when you start the program, 

    and initialize count, you don't know what the answer 

    to this question will be or it'll be an incorrect answer, 

    and you won't get the program that you wanted. 

    Finally, it's also a mistake not 

    to correctly alter the loop control variable. 

    You might make a mistake 

    by adding too much or adding too little. 

    In this case, the programmer just forgot to type plus one, 

    so count remains equal to itself and never increases. 

    When this program starts, count is zero. 

    Is it less than four? 

    Yes, it's zero, 

    so you output hello, and count remains zero. 

    Is it still less than four? 

    Well, yes it is, so you output hello, and count remains zero. 

    Is it still less than four? 

    Yes, it's going to be less than four forever. 

    You have an infinite loop and an incorrect program. 

    In any good loop, you must initialize the loop control 

    variable, make sure you're making the correct test 

    to start the loop, and somewhere within the loop, 

    you have to alter the loop control variable correctly. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
