

 
    
  
>> Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's take a look at exception handling. 

    Let's look at a short program that computes a percent. 

    For example, you might declare points earned on a quiz, 

    points passable for the entire quiz, and percent, 

    which is a ratio between those two values. 

    When you make these declarations, 

    three spots are set up in memory. 

    You then might prompt the user to enter the points earned. 

    And you might input a four to the points earned variable. 

    Then you might prompt enter points possible. 

    And suppose the user types a five. 

    You'd put five in the points possible variable. 

    Then the arithmetic would consist 

    of dividing points earned by points passable, 

    or four divided by five. 

    Percent would be point 80. 

    Then to output it, you might multiply it by 100, 

    so the answer would be percent is 80. 

    The program would end normally. 

    Now suppose something goes wrong. 

    Suppose when you run the program, the user puts in a four 

    for points earned, and it's stored, and then the user puts 

    in zero for points possible, and it's stored. 

    When you do the arithmetic, you're dividing four by zero. 

    In every programming language, dividing four 

    by zero is an illegal operation. 

    An exception is generated. 

    In object-oriented programming languages, 

    programmers call the error 

    that is generated an exception object. 

    And they say that it's thrown to someplace that can handle it. 

    This program has indicated no special place to handle it. 

    So in this case, the exception is thrown 

    to the operating system. 

    And there, a message is generated. 

    The message will be different in different programming languages. 

    But basically, it will say 

    that this is an unhandled exception, divisioned by zero. 

    You might choose instead to handle the exception. 

    In that case, you can add a triblock to your program. 

    A triblock is a block of code in which you put statements 

    that might generate an exception. 

    You then can add a catch block. 

    A catch block contains statements that you want 

    to have execute if an exception is generated. 

    In this example, in the triblock, 

    you'd put the arithmetic that might cause division by zero. 

    And in the catch block, perhaps you'd say set the percent 

    to zero, if that happens. 

    You could put different statements here. 

    You might want to set the percent 

    to a different default value. 

    Or you might want to re-prompt the user. 

    You put in the catch block whatever you want to have happen 

    if the exception is thrown. 

    After the triblock and the catch block, 

    you can finish the program and output the results. 

    So when you run this program and prompt the user 

    for points earned, the user might still type four, 

    and it will be stored. 

    And when you say enter points possible, 

    the user might still type zero, and it will be stored. 

    This time, when you do the arithmetic, 

    the exception is still generated. 

    But because it's in a triblock, 

    the exception can be thrown to a catch block. 

    So when the exception goes to the catch block, 

    the catch block executes, and the percent is set to zero. 

    Then the output can be percent is 0 times 100, or percent is 0. 

    Let's look at the program again. 

    Enter points earned, four. 

    Enter points possible, five. 

    In this case, when you get to the triblock, 

    the points earned divided 

    by points possible is a legitimate value. 

    In this case, the catch block is bypassed, and you can just go 

    to output the result, percent is 80. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
