

 
    
 >>Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's look at creating a class. 

    Suppose you decide to start a house sitting business 

    and you decide that one 

    of the classes you'll need is a house sitting contract 

    that holds data about each contract you have 

    with the client. 

    You might decide some of the data 

    that you'll need is a clients name as a string and the number 

    of days of the contract as a numeric variable. 

    Typically when you create a class you make most data 

    to be private. 

    Making the data private constructs a sort of barrier 

    around it that prevents outside classes or outside programs 

    from using the data in any way 

    that the class has not approved of. 

    For example, suppose you start a program 

    and you declare a house sitting contract object, named contract. 

    If you decide to assign a value to contract.client, 

    when you attempt to access the client, you can't get in. 

    The data is private. 

    This statement is illegal. 

    Instead what you have to do is create a method with a name 

    like set client that can accept a clients name as a parameter 

    and make the assignment. 

    This method is public, meaning an outside program can use it. 

    So in your program if you say, contract.set client and pass 

    in an argument, this is a call to the set client method. 

    The name is passed in as a parameter to the method. 

    The method makes the assignment and the method is allowed 

    to make the assignment because it's part of the same class. 

    A class method can get at its own classes data. 

    Here's a more detailed public method called set days. 

    It accepts the number of days in a contract and assigns it only 

    if it's within the proper range. 

    This method declares a maximum number of days and checks 

    to make sure the days passed and don't exceed that. 

    This is a better example of why you sometimes want methods 

    to protect your private data from being set in ways 

    that the class does not agree with. 

    So if you make a statement in your program 

    like contract set days, this calls the public method 

    and sends in the argument as a parameter. 

    The parameter can then be assigned and the method can get 

    at its own data and make the assignment. 

    Here's a statement that attempts 

    to output the contracts clients name. 

    When you try to get the clients name, it can't get 

    out because the data is private. 

    This is an illegal statement. 

    Instead, what you might want 

    to do is add a public method called get client 

    that returns the clients name to an outside program. 

    You might add a name to your program, a string, 

    and then you might assign contract.get client 

    to that name. 

    Contract.get client is a method call and the method 

    in the class can access its own data 

    and that can be returned to the outside. 

    Then you might output the name. 

    Incidentally these two statements, 

    name equals contract.get client 

    and then output name could be combined into one, 

    output contract.get client. 

    You could add another public method to your class 

    to return the private days 

    and then you could output the days within the program. 

    When you finish a class you typically add an end class 

    statement and when you finish your program, of course, 

    you typically add a stop statement. 

    That's a quick look at creating and using a class. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
