

 
    
  
>> Joyce Farrell: Hi. 

    This is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's talk about structure. 

    Structured programming has three structures. 

    With the sequence structure, you enter the structure, 

    and then you perform one step after the other 

    for as many steps as it takes to accomplish a problem, 

    and then you exit the structure. 

    The second structure is a selection structure. 

    When you enter a selection, you ask a question. 

    If the answer is yes, you travel one logical path 

    of the selection, or when you enter the selection structure 

    and ask the question, if the answer is no, 

    you travel the other logical path of the structure. 

    Either way, you exit the structure when you're done. 

    The third structure is a loop. 

    When you enter a loop, you ask a question. 

    If the answer is yes, you execute the loop body, 

    and ask the question again. 

    If the answer is still yes, you execute the loop body again, 

    and ask the question again. 

    When the answer to the question is finally no, 

    you exit the loop structure. 

    The sequence structure has a single entry and exit point, 

    the selection structure has a single entry and exit point, 

    and the loop structure has a single entry and exit point. 

    You can combine structures in two ways. 

    You can use the entry and exit points to stack them end-to-end 

    to attach them to each other. 

    You can also nest structures 

    by placing any structure entirely inside another one 

    using those entry and exit points. 

    For example, you might have a sequence, 

    and you might stack it on top of a loop. 

    So you'd have a sequence followed by a loop. 

    You might have a sequence followed by a selection. 

    You might have a loop followed by a selection, 

    or you might have any other combination 

    of structures stacked end-to-end. 

    When you nest structures, you might have a selection, 

    you might have a sequence, and you can take the sequence 

    and nest it inside one-half of the selection. 

    You might have a loop and a selection, 

    and you might nest the selection entirely inside the loop. 

    The three structures, sequence, selection, and loop, 

    can be stacked and nested and combined in an infinite number 

    of ways, but the three of them alone can be used 

    to solve every programming problem. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
