

 
    
  
>> Joyce Farrell: Hi. 

    This is Joyce Farrell. 

    Let's take a look at Boolean expressions 

    and how they're used in decisions. 

    Here's a selection structure. 

    With a selection structure, you ask a question. 

    If the answer to the question is yes, you take one course 

    of action, and if the answer to the question is no, 

    you take a different course of action. 

    The question in a selection structure is a 

    Boolean expression. 

    Boolean expression is one in which the result is one 

    of two values - true or false. 

    If you're talking to a human, you can ask a question 

    like when is your birthday. 

    The human can answer August 3rd. 

    When you're talking to a computer and say 

    when is your birthday, 

    the computer cannot answer that question. 

    The computer internally can only answer questions 

    that are Boolean expressions that result in yes or no. 

    So, you can ask a computer is your birthday June 24th, 

    and the computer can say no or yes as the case may be. 

    If you want to find out when the computer's birthday is, 

    it could take a lot of questions. 

    You might say, &quot;Is your birthday January 1st?&quot; 

    The computer says no. 

    &quot;Is it January 2nd?&quot; 

    No. &quot;Is it January 3rd?&quot; 

    No. Arg. This could take a long time 

    to find the birthday, especially if it's in August or September. 

    Fortunately, there are six comparison operators 

    that you can use to create Boolean expressions. 

    Not only can you see if one thing is equal to another, 

    is your birthday August 3rd, but you can see 

    if one thing is greater than another, 

    does your birthday come after August 3rd, 

    or see if it's less than something else. 

    Or you can compare two values, and see if one is greater than 

    or equal to the other one, or if one is less than or equal 

    to the other one, and finally you can ask a question are two 

    things not equal to each other. 

    So to find out the computer's birthday, perhaps using the less 

    than or equal to operator, you might start in the middle 

    and say is your birthday less than or equal to July 1st? 

    Does it come before July 1st in the year? 

    And supposing the computer's birthday is August 3rd, 

    the computer says no. 

    So then you might ask, OK, then. 

    It's not before July 1st. 

    Is it before or equal to October 1st, and the computer then, 

    assuming it's in August, might say yes. 

    And then you might say, OK, then. 

    We've narrowed it down. 

    Is your birthday less than or equal to August 15th? 

    And assuming it's August 3rd, the computer would say yes. 

    And so on. 

    By using the other comparison operators, 

    you can ask questions much more efficiently 

    than if you always had to ask equal to questions. 

    Boolean expressions can become even more complicated. 

    You can combine questions. 

    You might ask someone is your birthday not December 19th, 

    or is your birthday in April or May. 

    Or is your birthday September 2nd, and does that fall 

    on a weekend, and are you free that night. 

    We'll talk more about or and and operators 

    and how they work in another video. 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
