

 
    
  
>> Hi, this is Joyce Farrell. 

    I want to talk about using parallel arrays. 

    What are parallel arrays? 

    Well, parallel arrays occur when you have two or more arrays 

    in memory, and they're parallel when the data in each element 

    of one array logically corresponds to the data 

    in the same relative position in the second array. 

    For example, suppose you have four employees 

    with different ID numbers, and different names, and you want 

    to be able to write a program 

    where a user can input the ID number 

    and output the correct name. 

    You would start by declaring an array of ID numbers as follows: 

    numeric ID number -- four of them -- and then list them. 

    In memory, the ID numbers would look like this. 

    Then you declare an array of names. 

    And in memory, they'd look like this. 

    You'd need a few other variables. 

    A numeric subscript used to cycle through the array looking 

    for the correct ID number, a user entry 

    where the user will type in the ID number 

    that we're looking for, and a found name, 

    where we're going to store the correct name when we find it. 

    For right now, it's going to say, &quot;not found.&quot; 

    When you start the program, the subscript is set to zero. 

    Then you input the user's entry. 

    Let's assume the user types in 172. 

    You compare the subscript to four 

    to make sure you've not gone past the end of the array, 

    and the subscript is zero, so it is less than four, 

    and then you compare the user's entry, 172, with the ID number 

    at position zero, which is 121. 

    They're not equal, so we'll end the if statement and wait 

    until later to show what we do when they are equal. 

    Then add one to the subscript, so it's one, and you reach the end 

    of the body of the loop. 

    You return to the top and compare the subscript to four. 

    It's less, so you compare the user's entry, 172, 

    with the ID number in position one, which is 135. 

    They're not equal, so the if statement ends, 

    and you add one more to sub. 

    So, sub is now two. 

    The loop is at the end, and you compare the subscript 

    to four again. 

    You're still within range, so the loop continues. 

    When you compare the user entry, 172, with ID number two, 

    this time they're equal. 

    So, in the foundName you store the name 

    at position two in the name array. 

    The arrays are parallel because the ID number at position two 

    in one array corresponds to the name 

    and position two in the other array. 

    Then you end the if statement, add one to the subscript, 

    reach the bottom of the loop, compare the subscript to four. 

    It is still less, so you compare 189 and 172. 

    They're not equal, so the if statement ends. 

    You increase the subscript. 

    It's the end of the while loop. 

    Now when you compare sub to four, it's not less than four, 

    so the loop is over. 

    You continue then to output the ID number, the user entry, 

    which is 172, and the found name that goes 

    with the user entry, Carl. 

    You've successfully found the right name 

    with the ID number that was entered. 

    Now, if the array had had 100 elements instead of only four, 

    the loop would have continued for a long while 

    after you found ID number 172. 

    You can make the loop a little more efficient by exiting 

    as soon as you find the correct name, 

    so let's start over. 

    Let's make the loop efficient by changing the while statement 

    to not only to compare the sub to four, but also to compare the 

    found name to not found. 

    While it still says &quot;not found,&quot; you want to keep going. 

    Let's wipe everything out and start over. 

    Wipe out the subscript and the user entry, 

    and set foundName back to &quot;not found.&quot; 

    This time when the code starts, you can set sub to zero. 

    Let's say the user enters 121. Compare sub to four, 

    it is less than four, 

    and compare foundName to not found. 

    It is not found, so enter the loop 

    and compare the user entry to ID number zero. 

    121 is 121, so you can take foundName 

    and set it to name[0] 

    foundName becomes Ann. 

    That's the end of the if statement, and sub becomes one. 

    That's the end of the loop, so you go back to the top. 

    sub is less than four, but foundName is not &quot;not found.&quot; 

    foundName is now Ann, 

    so the while loop is over. 

    It's not going to execute anymore. 

    You can output the ID number, 121, and the foundName, Ann, 

    by getting out of the loop early when 

    foundName no longer was &quot;not found.&quot; 

    You saved a lot of time. 

    [ Silence ] 

    Thanks for watching. 

   
